So hey guys, welcome to another
exciting section on Node
js series in which we are going
to cover about modules.
So till now all the videos
that we have seen was
an introduction to Node js.
Yes, three to four videos just
for an introduction.
Because I want to cover each
and everything in depth.
So in this particular video,
let's see what are, modules.
So this is going to be a chapter
one and trust me, this is
really, really, really easy.
So with that, let's start
with the video.
So what are modules?
Okay, so what are modules?
So in programming world, when
you talk about modules, modules
is basically a code, a collection
of code that provides
your functionality, right?
This can be anything.
Now in Node js we have three
types of modules.
Number one, we have
like built in modules.
Okay, we have built in modules.
So what do I mean
by built in modules?
That basically means that Node
js gives you out of the box.
So there are a lot of modules which
Node js gives you out of the box.
Then we have, third party, right?
We have third party
which we can basically download
from the Internet.
So these are also known as
external modules, okay?
These are also known as external
modules and we can install them
using npm install command.
So you remember, right?
npm install.
So we can install third party modules
like you know, from other developers
who have published their modules.
And then third we have
our custom modules.
So custom modules or I can
just say my own modules.
Okay, so these are modules
which I can create for my own
project and I can use it also
known as internal modules.
Custom modules.
My own modules.
So these are three kinds of modules
that are available in the Node js.
Okay?
So first let's try to cover a few
built in modules and then we will
move to the third party and custom.
And these are super duper simple.
Okay, so first module that I want
to cover is a file system module.
Now tell me one thing.
If you are from a JavaScript
background, can you access the file
system in just pure JavaScript?
The JavaScript that you run
inside the browser, can you
access the file system?
No, but because Node js is
a JavaScript which is built
into the C program, they have
given you a whole FS module.
So this, this is known as an FS
module file system module,
which helps you to work with
the file system on your machine.
So let me show you how
you have to use it.
Okay, so what I'll do is I'll just do
a notes or Txt file first of all.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going
to move all this stuff for
your reference to this file, okay?
So that we can have a clean code.
So what you can do is, first
of all we have to import, we have
to require the FS module.
So how you do that is you have
a require function, okay?
You have a require function.
And in this require function you
can basically pass the module name.
For example, I want
to load the FS module.
So what this require function will do
is this will basically load the FS
module for me and then I can assign
it to a variable, let's say fs.
So this require function is
only and only available to you
in the node js environment.
So, so require the name of the module
and then you have this fs, right?
So now what we can do,
we can basically try
to console log this fs.
Let's see, what do we get in the fs?
So for the terminal, let me
open the integrated terminal.
So this is my integrated terminal.
How can I open it?
So either you can go into
the terminal and you can click
on the new terminal,
or the shortcut for this is Ctrl
control plus this till day.
Okay?
Okay, so this is the shortcut.
So I can just say control this
and then node and index and enter.
So you can see that I am
getting a lot of things, right?
You can see I'm getting
a lot of things.
So let's try to understand that.
What is this fs?
So this FS is a, is an object
in which you have functions like
you have a function for appending
file append file sync, you
have access, you have access.
Sync, you have count.
You have count Sync, you have chmod.
So you can see that these are all
the functions that are exposed
which helps you to manage files.
Let's say I want to read a file.
Okay, let's say I want
to read this file.
So what I can do is I can
just say fs.read file sync.
Now I'll tell you what is this thing.
So as of now you can just ignore it.
And here let's pass the name
of the file that is notes or txt.
Okay, so I'm just saying notes or txt
and then you have
to specify the binary encoding.
So I want to read it
as a UTF8 encoding.
What this is going to
do is it is going to give you
the content of the file.
Okay?
If everything goes right, we
should have the contents.
So let's just do a console.log
on the content and let's
see what we are getting.
So you can see that we
are getting this thing.
So these are all the contents
of this file, right?
Let me modify something.
Let me just remove
all these comments.
Okay, so if I just remove
all these comments and.
Yeah, so.
So let's see if I now
rerun the program.
You can see that whatever I am
writing in this file, I am writing.
So that is getting
console logged, right?
So what we are doing here is
first of all I am requiring,
I am requiring this FS module.
All the code of this FS
module is being transferred
to this FS variable.
Feel free to call this variable
anything and then I'm calling a
function that is read file sync,
give the path of the file that is
notes Txt in which encoding you
want to read.
And this returns the content
of the file.
And then finally I'm just doing
a console.log of the content
and this is what I'm getting.
I'm doing a command K or
you can even do a clear
to clear how the terminal.
So yeah, that's your wish.
So this is how you can use.
This is a built in module, right?
This is a built in module in the
node js that is like given to you
out of the box and we can use it
now Interestingly, the
documentation of node js is very
interesting.
Let me show you.
So if you go to node js.org and you
go into the documentation,
the documentation is well managed.
So let's search for FS here.
Okay, so file system.
You can see we have this file system.
So if you click on this file system.
So these are all the functions
that are available.
And if I just keep
on scrolling just one second.
Yeah, so you can see that
what is this file system?
This is basically a module that
enables interacting with
the file system in a way
model standard POSIX functions.
So you can see that you
can do a require and you
can require the fs.
Now I'll tell you that why they are
putting this node thing as of now.
Please feel free to ignore this.
So you can do a require and name
of the module that is FS and then
you can basically use it.
So all the things are
given here, right?
So let me try to search
for this function.
Okay, so you can see that
this is how we can use it.
So you can just say, you know,
you can directly import this read
file thing and you can do this.
So this is actually they
are using the ESM modules.
So I'll tell you about
that, don't worry.
Okay, so all the documentation
is given here.
Okay?
So this is what we have to follow.
Now here is the interesting part.
Okay?
So as of now, let's not go
with the documentation because
there are few things that is going
on crazy here, okay?
So my motive in this particular
video is to explain
you this require function.
So let me just copy this function
and come into my whiteboard and let
me just move it to dark mode so
that it doesn't strain your eyes.
So let's say that this is
the code that you have, right?
This is your source code, okay?
And let me change the font.
Now when you run this code
using this command, right?
You, you do node and then you do
like script js or index js, okay?
Not node.
I, mean node, right?
So what happens?
What node does?
Node takes your source code, okay?
So this is your source file.
So this particular thing is
basically your index file.
Or I can say this is
your source file.
Now, when you pass your source file,
node js will read the contents
of your source file, right?
So node js will come and it
will see, oh, these are
the contents of your file.
Then what this node js does
internally, it has
a wrapper function, okay?
It has a wrapper function.
In this wrapper function,
it has a few parameters
that it exposes to you.
So let me just search here.
That, node is wrapper function, okay?
Node js, wrapper function
and module wrapper.
Basically, it is known
as the module wrapper.
So let me see if I
can get the example.
Yeah, here it is.
So it gives you few variables,
like for example, exports.
It gives, you require.
Okay, it gives, you require.
Just one second, let me just type in.
And it gives you a, module, right?
It gives you the module.
So let's have module and it gives you
underscore, underscore file name.
So, so, underscore, underscore
file name and comma,
underscore, underscore d name.
So this is what.
This is basically a wrapper
function that is internally
made by the node js.
Then all of your source code
whatsoever, source code you have
written is basically injected
in this wrapper function.
So your source code is basically
injected
in this wrapper function, okay?
Like this.
So what if I just change the color
so that you have more clarity.
So here is your wrapper
function, right?
And then, okay, and then this is
your source code that node J
has copied from your command.
Then node js will execute the code by
just calling the wrapper function.
So this is basically the entry point.
Now what happens is your Source
code is basically running
inside a wrapper function.
And this wrapper function gives you
access to some Features like
exports, require module, underscore,
underscore file name and turning.
That is the reason that I'm able
to use this require function.
Do you see this
require function here?
So let me grab a pen.
So if you see this require
function, this is basically I'm able
to use because this require
function is in the scope.
What if I go into my browser because
again this is also JavaScript
and I try to say const FS
equals to require and I say fs,
you will see I get an error.
It says that hey, the require
function is not defined, right?
I'm not able to call
this required function.
But this code is working here.
Why?
Because internally you know that
this whole code
goes inside a wrapper function.
Okay, goes inside a wrapper
function and basically it
looks something like this.
So this wrapper function has this
require thing and this require
function is internally made
and maintained by the node js team.
So now you understand that
from where this require function
is coming into the scope
that is from this variable.
Proceeding further, we will also
take a look that what is this
module, what is this export,
what is this underscore, underscore
file name and all that?
Don't worry about that.
Okay, now let's understand that what
this require function works like
how this require function works.
Okay, so it's basically
somewhat like this.
So node js gives you
a require function, right?
So this is your require function.
This require function takes
a string kind of the module
name that you want to load.
So this is a module name
that you want to load.
Okay, how it basically tries
to load this module.
Now first it is going to check that
if you have any third party, if you
have any third party installation.
Okay?
So if you have installed any third
party module, it is going to load
that and return you the module.
Okay?
So first it will try to load
the third party installation.
If you have any third party
with this module.
If no, it is going to then
check what it is going to check
that if it there is any built
in module of this name.
Okay, it is going to check that
if you have a built in module.
If not, if this is also not the case
in this case it will throw an error.
Okay, throw an error because that
particular module is not found.
Piyush, that is fine.
But now where is the custom module?
Right?
You told that, okay, built
in module is there third party
module, is there custom module?
So yeah, I'm Coming to that.
So first of all you have to make
sure that this part is clear that
you do a require you give a module
name that you want to require.
So it will first try to search
in the third party installation if
you have installed that module.
If not it will go into
the built in module.
If that is also not the case,
it will throw an error.
Now this module name is
a very interesting thing.
Okay, now let me show you
that how this module name
is very special thing.
Let's say you are trying to require.
Let me just have a green pen.
Let's say you are trying
to say require fs.
Now you can see that
I'm just giving a name.
So it will try to search.
Hey fs, is there any
third party installation?
No.
Is there a built in module?
Yes.
So it will give you that.
Let's say you do a require
maybe something like,
you know, JSON web token.
So it's a third party.
So what it will do is it will
first see that hey, do you have
a third party installation?
Actually JSON web token is
a third party, but right now
I have not installed it.
So it will say oh, I am not able to
find the third party installation.
So it will try to search
in the built in module.
There is no built in module
such as JSON web token
and it will throw an error.
That's fine.
If you have installed JSON web
tokens, it will give you that.
Now if I give something like
this, okay, so if I say require
dot slash let's say math.math.j,
something like this.
Now here do you notice that this
particular thing starts with a dot?
Did you notice this dot here?
This dot.
So okay, so this dot
basically is a special thing.
This dot basically indicates that
hey, I want to search this math
js file in the current directory.
So this dot, a single dot
basically means search
in the current directory.
Dot dot slash means search
go one directory up.
Dot dot slash dot dot slash
means go to directories up.
So whenever your require thing
starts with this pattern, you
know, dot slash, dot dot slash or
something like that, that is
where node js knows that it's a
custom module, it's a module that
you have made.
Got it.
So right now I'm just doing fs.
So it is trying to load the FS
from the built in module, right?
Because there is no
third party module.
It's working.
But if I say dot slash so now it
will throw an error because there is
no module, no module not found.
And where it is trying to Find this
module inside users Piyushkar coding
folder node js01 modules index
so now you can see that I
don't have any FS module, right?
You can see that I don't
have any FS module.
So if I remove this.now it knows.
Okay, first I have to search
for third party, then I have
to search for built in.
And it got the built in model,
so everything is working fine.
Okay, so this is how
the require function works.
Interesting, right?
This require function is very
interesting and also it
does something known as
internal caching, you know.
So once you require a module, it also
caches it so that it doesn't have
to load these things again
and again, which I'll show you when
we will move to the custom modules.
As of now, feel free to ignore it.
So in this particular video
I wanted to tell that how
you can use the require
and how you can do the fs.
Okay, so let's explore
some FS things.
Okay, so what all you can do, you can
read a, file in a synchronous way.
Then what else you can do, you can
actually read a directory as well.
Okay, so now you have understood
that how the FS works.
Now here is the thing,
guys, did you notice one thing?
That whenever I do like FS and I do
a dot, I'm not able to get anything.
I'm not getting suggestions, right?
Because that's a part
of typescript typings and that's
an external module now.
So what we will do is
in the next class I'll show you
something with npm init.
Then we will install the typings
and then we will explore some built
in modules in node js, which
are very, very, very important.
And then we will move
to the custom modules.
Okay, so with that, let's
end the video here.
I hope you have
learned something new.
That is how this
require function works.
So in the next class let's
work on the npm thing.
So let's meet you right there.